# On Why Claude Is Awesome

*Context: This started out as one of those things I post on X after coffee. Then it got too long so I started typing it in a notepad. V1: No-AI*

Claude Code is a masterpiece of software engineering:

Strip away the parts of technology that tend to break and cause compatibility problems (the UI) and you're left with the most basic primitive of computing - the terminal - and nothing other than a cursor standing in the way of frontier AI.

My only criticism - and then only being pedantic - is ironically the name itself.

I've been using Linux for a long time - like 20 years long time.

But - *channeling the grumpy writer in me, which is never far beneath the surface, at least until I've had my morning coffee* - I've always bristled at some of the gatekeeping that goes on in technology.

Is one a "dev" or not? I mean, why should that even matter? And why is that so often held out as a yardstick?

We see this idea echoed all the time, in contexts that are subtle or less so. It has, over time, led to a massive fixation on "coding" - like coding bootcamps, that aim to condense what really takes years to master into days or weeks - that has often been nonsensical and myopic. Often, the obsession about mobilising a code-literate workforce has been spearheaded by those who have the least hands-on understanding of the change they are seeking to drive.

When you think about how many contributors and skillsets it takes to even put together a home router, it also makes little sense. You don't need to know much code to admin a Linux server or do some pretty serious devops stuff. Many Python devs couldn't set up a load balancer to save their life. Backend devs probably aren't great at writing embedded software. And many sysadmins couldn't seat a stick of RAM or swap out a CPU cooler if their job depended on it (okay, I exaggerate a little).

Even limiting our conception of what's real technology to hardware is too restrictive. Without product and marketing people, your product mightn't sell and your Python devs would be fighting with the hardware guys over who gets to eat the last sandwich in the fridge. The roles matter less than the mission of different skillsets coming together to make the world better - a process in which technology, we tend to forget, will never be more than just a component.

Which is why I think that calling Claude Code Claude "Code" and marketing it primarily as dev tooling is actually an unnecessary constraint on its potential.

It plays into a weird form of pointless elitism and gatekeeping that no longer needs to exist in a world in which AI agents are already generating a majority of code in production. Through its sheer proficiency in generating code, Claude Code has arguably made its own title obsolescent. Or at least expedited that process.

Claude can execute commands on the Linux terminal (or on Windows). You can connect it to a Jewish texts MCP ([Sefaria](https://www.sefaria.org/)) and pull in and typeset your own Pesach Haggadah. I've used Claude Code to cook up silly lyrics about carrot cakes that I then run through [Suno](https://suno.com/) and play to our son to try to get him to sleep. After writing this, I'll ask Claude to fix my typos - effectively turning it into a spellcheck (I'll carefully preserve the original). I've used it to clean data and.... the list could go on.

Before Claude, I would have squirmed at the thought of paying $200 a month for a subscription. But in a world where even the cost of bread and cheese has become non-trivial, and SaaS that overpromises and underdelivers has become the norm, Claude has slashed so many expenses and created so much value that that feels like a genuine bargain. I feel like I could probably end my phone contract if I really wanted to. Claude would probably coach me through how to do it and then code a PBX before I had time to locate my last invoice.

Many of the most fulfilling applications I've found for Claude are in the realm of systems administration. You could say that I've "pioneered" the idea of what I call a Claude space - essentially using a repo as a launching pad for Claude to work on an ongoing project: like, say, optimising a Home Assistant setup. I use Claude constantly to fix things on my computer. Or - if I'm being honest - just because saying "hey, could you clean up my desktop - delete the images and working data" is easier than right clicking and moving stuff into the bin.

I could ask Claude to then do some more extensive edits in a V3 and when I feel like it's ready to be shared use the Contentful MCP to push it up to my blog (or use a newsletter MCP to bounce it over to friends). Even as an AI enthusiast, as a writer and as a creative - it takes quite a bit of trust to feel comfortable in letting anything overwrite me. Words are my code. I stubbornly resist Grammarly because in its obsessive desire to enforce grammar, it tends to lose those deliberately ungrammatical sentences that make playing with language fun. Claude, however, has my full confidence.

You can use Claude, too, to write a system prompt asking it to act as a travel agent and give it a repo - a folder, basically, that's version controlled - in which to do so. But those are its essential qualities. So what is its greatness? I'm convinced

These feel like the most natural and logical applications to me. Such that using Claude Code in repositories sometimes feels like I'm pushing it into places it shouldn't go. While I understand why it exists, and why it has to in many contexts, the sandboxing and constant safety prompts actually make little sense to me: I want Claude to be fluid and I'm fine with it occasionally breaking things. If I wasn't, I wouldn't be using it.

Claude Code is also a paradox. In an era in which AI has never been more powerful, we have reverted to .... a terminal to use it. I have ADHD, something I make no secret of. Claude is becoming a powerful ally. I'll use it to do things that would ordinarily make my brain scream "STRESS!" like planning a weekly schedule.

But the UI - this is my contention, at least - is actually highly accommodating to ADHDers. Cluttered UIs are my pet peeve. And even though I've been using Linux for a long time, I always felt that using CLIs "just because" made little sense. Who has the mental bandwidth to keep a million parameters in their head? Claude is the first CLI I've used that I like so much that I've memorised the operators without expending any effort to do so.

There's something humbling, too, about building a good CLI in 2026. Anyone can build a flashy GUI. But often flashy GUIs mask buggy and poorly QA-ed products. In software, the GUI - the windows that make computers easy to use - are often the most brittle part of the tool.

It's not that good UI isn't vital (I'm a huge advocate for it and it receives way too little attention). But Claude Code directs its energy, and focuses its value, on the parts of the tool that actually make a transformative difference: the functions themselves. Other than a weird blob-like mascot, it offers no flashier UI than a white blinking cursor set against a terminal. By living just on top of the execution layer, Claude Code gets you straight under the hood. The visual layers that extend it past the purely command level layer - like browser use - are nice-to-have. But the future of agentic on computer is almost certainly going to happen at the cleaner level at which Claude Code natively lives.

Claude Code has done another great service to the world of AI: it's made agentic AI approachable enough that it's not too difficult to begin actually experimenting with it.

I've made the point before that agentic AI is insanely backend-heavy. Telegram Bots - while endearing and functional - are not production-level tools for interfacing with AI agents. That they are accepted as an almost default way of talking to backends is telling.

The reason might be that for the frontend to be useful you need to stand up an agentic backend which is a very complicated and multifaceted task once you begin breaking out what sounds like a simple proposition ("just get AI to do things").

I'm convinced that a huge driver of the discourse around the "confusion" about agentic AI is because just defining agentic AI by reference to its essential quality - that it *does* things - is actually far too non-specific.

By this definition, ChatGPT with an MCP connection has as much right to be called an agent as does an enterprise workflow that features an AI parser but which will never be directly interacted with by even a single user.

But before building out sprawling workflows in Python - or in N8N - we need a safe place to try out those ideas. Agentic frameworks tend to be either code-first - defining a multiagent architecture from code is a big barrier to entry - or low-code solutions that free you from code but also add so much vendor lock-in that you've now got a scale constraint. They also tend to be ... a very unsatisfying experience.

Claude Code provides a compelling middle ground that was for too long simply absent. The framework gets criticised for relying heavily upon globs of markdown documents - hey, aren't skills just a cluster of MD files?! - but praised for that same decision very rarely. By standardising core parts of its harness on markdown, Claude Code means that essentially anybody can begin seeing how natural language can create compelling technology solutions that can be built with AI even if they ultimately don't use them.

I've used Claude to typeset documents (with [Typst](https://typst.app/)); create software; render videos; organise photos. You can also just open it up at an arbitrary part of your filesystem and randomly start chatting if you feel like it. But it exists in an inherent "action space" which is what makes it an entirely different beast than, say, ChatGPT. Sitting on the terminal, it can do anything.

Their marketing: "to do - everything" is one of the very best marketing slogans I've ever seen. It's simple, effective, and describes the product well. And great technology marketing slogans aren't a dime a dozen.

Claude Code is the only technology product I can ever say I have found addictive - but in the best possible way.

It makes every flash of what seemed like brilliance you've had seem only a few minutes away.

I prototype and experiment with it at a pace that is sometimes furious. This is my anxiety at work. I assume that at some point Claude may be taken away - perhaps that $200 will be $1000 a month! As a father, if I can find a block of time to advance some open source projects, I seize it. Claude gets straight to task.

Sometimes Claude is so good at everything that I can just turn off the computer and go out and do other things. This is the promise of AI: that it will make technology help us to live more efficient lives. It is not to make more technology. Meeting this bar is not easy. Claude Code is one of the few products that can truly lay claim to having reached that threshold. At least in my view.

Happy first birthday, Claude Code! It's been a wild ride so far. You've put up with my sometimes dreadful prompting. Helped expand upon my weird ideas. Improved my life. And changed my workday: I start each morning with at least a mild jolt of optimism about what fun new things can be cooked up today. I can't wait to see what the next iterations bring!
